<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type"
content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
<title>The UOX3HOC Log</title>

<title>First official UOX3 House of Commons Chat&nbsp;
</title>

</head>

<body bgcolor="#000000" text="#FFFFFF" link="#008080"
vlink="#008080" alink="#008080">

<center><h1>Third official UOX3 House of Commons Chat</h1>
<h4>February 21st, 2000</h4>
</center>

<p>Legend
</p>

<p><font color="#FFC840">
Developer answer
<br>
</font>
Question
<br>
<font color="#800080">
Misc</font>
</p>

<p><font color="#800080">* EviLDeD would like to welcome everyone to the 3rd uox3hoc meeting. Please direct any questions to Xuri, and I guess lets begin<br>
</font><font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: First off I would like to address the last rash of crap on the message boards.<br>
첚viLDeD: There is no problems in the DevTeam there were some personal differences
of opinions that made it public and they never should have. There is nothing to worry about. So please try to limit questions away from this recent set of issues</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: Question: When and how will the 3D Client be implemented? How is the development coming along?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: The client is in the dev stage. There is no hard code at this moment. This project will be starting soon and has been side tracked to dig deeper into the problems of UOX3.</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: &lt;GM-Strangler|Busy&gt; when will we see the next official release and what issues will be covered in it?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: At this moment we are in a tracing for some large bugs that seem to crash
the server, as well as track down some memory issues, as for a definite release on the next official release that is hard to say. were going to try to deal with as many large ended bugs as possible.</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: &lt;Cestle&gt; is the feature freeze over yet?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: Nope, not a chance. As EvilDeD mentioned with the previous question, there's a lot of large bug / memory issue type of thing that we doing our best to isolate and repair<br>
첔baddon: We've had too many reports of crashing and instability, this freeze was designed to repair as many problems as possible, before implementing new features</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: Question: When do you expect to have the script files converted into binary and the code to use it readily available?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: the reading code is well underway however crashes on OR have directed my attention towards finding a means to keep it
running more stable before ripping hard code apart.
Got to keep the users happy, as for the<br>
첚viLDeD: scripts being binary, some dev's are against the thought, so more talks about that will have to be done before that ever takes hold</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: &lt;Cestle&gt;  Who's on the script team? what has happened to the people on it?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: This is a good one, as it seems that's what the base amount of the shit on the message boards has been about as of late.<br>
첚viLDeD: right now the script team is Eagle, he came through when the old team was
slacking off, and has told me that they are but a day or 2 away, so as that question goes Eagle is the script team..<br>
첚viLDeD: There was some issues that happened between me and another regarding scripts and I was hasty to select him over eagle, however in my own defence I wasn't sure that Eagle was
coming back as<br>
첚viLDeD: communication isn't one of the strongest traits we both share.<br>
첚agle: heh<br>
첚agle: FYI: i am looking for others to help me just email me at eagle@kc.rr.com
DON'T ASK ME IN IRC</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: Question: Any chance we can get some hot females to work for UOX, it would bring more people to UOX? :)<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: on this question well, come on there has to be something better to ask :)</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: &lt;GM-Strangler|Busy&gt;  Can temporary fixes be released so as to make the server playable again ?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: Well, temporary fixes are usually that. Temporary. A lot of the stuff we are working on now are the critical subsystems of UOX, and hence we are trying our best to rigorously test them all out before releasing any fixes per say<br>
첔baddon: I know I've been working on some things that have taken a few days of work, and even then I'm not finished, or close to finishing with testing<br>
첔baddon: I imagine if we find anything truly critical, we'll try and release these fixes if we can, but we make no promises currently.<br>
첚viLDeD: To reinforce what Abaddon's just said if we get a critical bug killed and its well tested a release will be made<br>
첚viLDeD: just when isn't determinable</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: 첖haos: Question: What is required to be on the "UOX3 Script Team"?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: I just talked with Eagle, and he said that he is going to post on the web some criteria laying out
what's needed, and why we are looking for. Eagle will provide the url when its ready.<br>
첚agle: well that's a good question but I have no set requirement , as with the dev team, but i will put applications up on the web
tonight and make them available</font>
</p>

<p>
첚agle: <Morticus> With the changes in the scripts what can we look forward too? Will it affect our current tools or worlds?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚agle: well a lot of bugs are hiding in the scripts and none are uniform in nature so
a lot of what we are doing is setting a standard for the scripts , you shouldn't
lose and tool functionality as tools like shard ace PARSE the scripts but if there is any questions about that there will l be conversion tools if UOX
doesn't do it its self</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: 첖haos: Question: Is there going to be a nicer looking back end to UOX3.exe? Like with point and click options, etc?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: Well, in general, I'll say wait for threading<br>
첔baddon: A GUI of any sorts tends to be fairly intensive for CPU usage, compared to a generic console<br>
첔baddon: Yes, there are plans for it, certainly on the Win32 platform<br>
첔baddon: But it's not really high on our priority list right now</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: Heres a question: Is UOX3 going to try and follow OSI in its server or is it going to try and branch out a little?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: Well, yes and no, I suppose. We'll have to keep in lockstep for the encryption obviously. But as far as features go, I'd say we'll probably end up going a separate route in many areas. It'll need to be evaluated on a feature per feature basis really<br>
첔baddon: But I imagine you'll find many things in UOX that aren't the same, or don't exist in UO, and even some things in UO that we don't feel were good ideas anyway. Then again, it is for you we do this, and you do have some say in the matter</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: Question: Is the Official Realms Shard ever going to be anything but an excuse for Devs to go round kill people?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: Well I have only killed one player on the shard so far and that was Boris, for whining at me :)) However,
OR shard is intended to build a strong world, provide the devs live first hand sight of
what's going on<br>
첚viLDeD: right now it is running in debug mode, and has new tracking code in it that will make it even more laggy.<br>
첚viLDeD: Please bare with this, as were are tacking the functions that are causing the errors. other wise, no we
don't just have OR to kill players..<br>
첚viLDeD: Btw what was your character name again</font>
</p>

<p>
첚agle: <Wirebender> Question: (Directed Towards Eagle) When can we expect to have the UOXDev.com website up, fully?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚agle: it should be up in full dev mode by Wednesday<br>
첚agle: but there will be a lot of changes<br>
첚agle: as this page is for DEV related things a lot of "everyday" traffic will be directed
towards stratics<br>
첚agle: but past that it will be up Tue or Wed</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: &lt;GM-Strangler|Busy&gt; is the OR server running the latest build 03 ?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: No, it's certainly not<br>
첔baddon: It's up to build 14 now, and it's working off some laggy source (in aid of us debugging)<br>
첔baddon: You'll probably even see that fact when you login =)<br>
첔baddon: But OR will be running off the latest round of fixes that we have (or debugging improvements)<br>
첔baddon: It may not be stable (though we hope it is), and it will be a test of our critical systems<br>
첔baddon: However, it will be more stable as time passes, we can guarantee that</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: &lt;ADurley>&gt; Question: So OR is running versions of UOX way ahead of ours?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: Not sure how to answer this one directly. Some troubles some was removed from the 07.02.xx release, and some was added, so to say thats its way ahead or not only time will tell..</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: <JustMichael> on the build numbering system, will there be a (Build #) added to the name?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: If you login to OR sometime, you'll notice that there is now a report based upon the build #, and that does get incremented when there have been any real changes<br>
첔baddon: so when you login to OR, you'll notice straight away what build it is running<br>
첔baddon: and I imagine, once the source has stabilized a lot more significantly, people will see it on their own shards as well</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: &lt;GM-Strangler|Busy&gt; could you please make some of those fixes available since the shard
I'm running is in a terrible state.. anything even a small fix to some bug related stuff would be greatly
appreciated !"'<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: Strangler, as fixes are available that tackle issues that do stop uox3 from functioning they will be made available, and for testing sake at most times just ask
Ab or myself for the most recent build and we can hook you up. But we don't warrant
that it will fix anything and could very well make things worse, however we will do out best not to
release things that do not work. This wont happen anymore if can be helped</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: "Will we be able to find more scriptability in things such as magic and spells? Say animations, sounds and all? Like what you can do with a trigger."<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: Yes, we intend to make more of it scriptable<br>
첔baddon: Currently the action a person makes casting magic is scriptable<br>
첔baddon: I hope to abstract out the animation and moving effects as well sometime, though I don't know how soon that may be<br>
첔baddon: I hope to make the ores and ingots more scriptable for mining as well, but I'm not sure how quickly that will go in</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: &lt;GM-Strangler|Busy> will player chars at any point get into their own
separate file ?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: Yes I was working on that before OR decided to start crashing regularly. So I have turned to try to sort out why this is
occurring as its annoying to you guys its annoying to me., but yes they are going into
their own files.. and over the next number of builds possibly</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: &lt;ADurley>&gt; Question: Are you considering two versions of UOX> One which is true to OSI, and one which isn't? i.e. with new features?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: in one word - "no"<br>
첔baddon: Our goal is to provide you with the tools you need to build your own shard. That's why we try to make things more flexible, to make it as flexible as humanly possible. And anyway, who wants a whole heap of OSI clones? =)</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: <Shadowhand> Will there be any capability of adding your own spells in the future?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: That's certainly a possibility, yes, though a lot of it would need code backing, unless we can come up with a way to interpret the scripts and derive the behaviour from it (not completely out of the question, just long and time consuming)<br>
첔baddon: We'd certainly like it, it goes hand in hand with our goal to provide you with as flexible a tool as possible</font>
</p>

<p>첚viLDeD: <Delorim> "Might it be possible to specify a root directory for scripts, then it read all files in all sub directories? hehehe, little organization or something ;)"<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: yes this will also happen over the next number of builds, and has been planned.</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: 첳hite_Knight: Will we be eventually able to edit/create different looking items such as helmets, how weapons look etc?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: I don't know of any solid concrete plans for such tools<br>
첔baddon: The formats for the files are fairly readily available currently, but I don't know of any real plans for one<br>
첔baddon: Most of the developers have their hands full working on UOX3 pretty much full time, so tools haven't been our priority<br>
첔baddon: but there have been at least some experimental hacks from some of us, in some of these areas, but nothing remotely production quality (nor necessarily so anytime soon)<br>
첚viLDeD: To add to this, I would think that this would be a tool thing more over a server thing... So maybe one of the tool doods in here hear you! :) They know who they are :))</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: &lt;GM-Strangler|Busy> when the player chars get into their own file will the /acct command then be made fully
functional ?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: in a word - "yes"</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: 첗Paladine: is there any plan to add resmelting of armour and
weaps in UOX3?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: Even though they just left (good timing)<br>
첚viLDeD: this is not planned, or at least in our immediate thought, resmelting in a sense of the Roleplaying
genre lowers game economy in my opinion with mmprpg.</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: <Boris> when will boats be fully implemented into uox?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: Well, Zippy's been the boat guy, and last I heard, he believed they were fully functional<br>
첶uri: or close.<br>
첔baddon: If there are still problems, then pass them along to Xuri, myself or Zippy, and we'll try and track them down</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: <Boris> when UOX is almost completely stable, what new features are first on the list?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: Well, we've all got lovely ideas in mind, and we'll have to discuss it with each other<br>
첔baddon: I know I've got a whole stack of racial ideas in mind, and plans to try and tie them with townstones. Then again, that may not be appropriate (though I'd love to work on it), it's something that needs to be discussed with others<br>
첔baddon: Also, I'd like to see guilds expanded so that they can increase the number of guilds and members in total possible<br>
첚viLDeD: to add to this<br>
첚viLDeD: I would like to see a more player run economy, and a more real ad&d feel to rules and effects, to aid in the
experience of role playing., which is why we are all here..<br>
첚viLDeD: maybe segregate player killers form people that don't want to be player killers.<br>
첚viLDeD: kinda rally shitty thing to join up to a shard cause you want to have some fun, and whammo dead. and looted.<br>
첚viLDeD: anyone else<br>
첚viLDeD: I guess not</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: <Ripper> Question: How is the memory reduction going? So can we expect to have a large world with say a 64 Ram if everything goes well or will it still require a min of 128 Ram? :)<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: Yes!!! This is something that I have been striving for and that most of the rest of the devs think I am mental about. however in all realize for shards over 20-25 players I would think that nothing less than 128mb of ram would be
plausible, however up to 20 I think that and believe that uox3 should be MADE to run
fairly stable on a low class machine for those TRUE player run shards.<br>
첚viLDeD: As for the progress, some of the changes made were kinda buggy, and not
totally thought out so I removed then from the 03 build<br>
첚viLDeD: Ab has a bunch, zippy had made a bunch and we will be re implementing them one at a time to make sure that they work :))<br>
첚viLDeD: anyone else to contribute on that one<br>
첔baddon: Yeah, I have a few memory reductions that I have in mind<br>
첔baddon: Some regarding to full spellbooks (they take a hell of an amount of memory currently)<br>
첔baddon: I know that shards like having a lot of mages, and with all those mages having full spellbooks, it's a drain on the server<br>
첔baddon: But I have to think that one over carefully (can play havoc elsewhere) though I'd like to get it in</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: [19:26] <Xuri> <NICKNAME> can we disable theft and PKing ?? if so how? If not, is it in the future?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: Well I kind hinted to this earlier. I would like to see the ability at being a pk'r and not harm other people that
don't want to be. might be lonely, but then again most like pk'g anyhow so maybe you would be so lonely, but this is a feature in my opinion and has a fairly low priority<br>
첶uri: and thieving already is, by setting ROGUE 1 to ROGUE 0 (server.scp)</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: <Skyfire> Is there going to be banker notes added in?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: Well, it's a possibility for later on. EvilDeD hinted at a greater player run economy, and I guess that this would be part of it<br>
첔baddon: But it's more of a nicety, a feature, and that really isn't one of our concerns at the moment, stability, memory reduction and performance are our higher priorities (and probably in that order, or so I'd think =)</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: <Leper> Is there a plan to have another bug posting site available?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: I'm not sure whether uoxdev will come back up with a system like keystone or jitterbug, it would be nice to have it there again<br>
첔baddon: If worse comes to worst, I can always resurrect my static HTML page and try and update it as often as I can<br>
첔baddon: We'd like a controlled mechanism over the bug reporting, but remember, when you do make bug reports, make them as detailed as you possibly can</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: &lt;GM-Strangler|Busy> will the spellbook still be regarded as a container ?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: Not as it is now, if my idea goes through<br>
첔baddon: the trouble at the moment, memory wise, is that it IS a container, and that each and every spell is an item in that container<br>
첔baddon: Wasteful on memory, and performance as well. But it needs to be thoroughly looked at, and examined<br>
첔baddon: If I removed it as a container, then you'd lose the ability to open a spellbook like a container (unless I can figure a way around it somehow). But there's always a price to pay for better performance and memory usage</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: <Delorim> What about player defined gumps (well, the gumps in misc.scp)? Could players eventually use
those through trigger or something?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: This is a tough one, as you can tell from our delay that it was a
tough argument. Some say that it might
be partially there, others say no. I think that player defined gumps should be more of a true script language
related question (see previous uox3hoc logs for our position on the script language). And to me would almost seem to large a job for triggers. But
anything is possible, and it might already be to a small degree.</font>
</p>

<p>
첚viLDeD: <JustMichael> Will there be a way to access the GM queue from outside UOX that way tools can monitor it and people don't have to stay logged in to get queued. Instead the tool could play a sound or something else to summon the GM.<br>
<font color="#800080">
* EviLDeD waves at JM!<br>
</font><font color="#FFC840">
첚viLDeD: Yes I in the true form of the xGM interface I would like to see that expanded to be more secure as well as more
easily interfaceable with the server, so GM's don't have to be logged in to do typical things like answering pages or page cue, account admin etc.<br>
첚viLDeD: When this will take place is hard to tell. as all the features finally stopped getting in the true nature of the code started to show.<br>
첚viLDeD: and might I say that there are some serious things wrong that are no unavoidable . but this will be followed up on JM</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: <Shadowhand> Related in a way with the adding of spells, is there any intention of being able to add new skills?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: That's actually one of the things I've done, experimentally. I've been able to add a few skills to the client MUL files, though that was in C++<br>
첔baddon: I've got a VB App at the moment that reads/writes the skills info from skills and verdata, and will even write out the status of the blue button<br>
첔baddon: When I get time I'll go back and visit it, allowing the user to rename them, or add some of their own. But it would require server side coding as well, potentially a lot depending on the skill<br>
첔baddon: But it will be feasible in the long term</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: <NICKNAME> What are the possibilities that you can use different paperdolls for say an orc character?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: Well, that's really a client side issue more than anything<br>
첔baddon: There are ways to try and "trick" the client into believing it's something that it's not<br>
첔baddon: but in reality, it's a virtually impossible task really, because the intelligence (or distinct lack thereof) is in the client<br>
첔baddon: and that's not something we can control</font>
</p>

<p>
첔baddon: Will races be more user friendly in the future? ex: ability to choose what you want them to wear and what weapon to start with?<br>
<font color="#FFC840">
첔baddon: Personally, I think they are quite nice and user friendly now<br>
첔baddon: It might be possible to do that at a later date, but I'm more interested in making them as flexible as possible, like adding things such as the ability to specify which spells they can or cannot use, adding racial armour, things like that<br>
첔baddon: But I don't imagine it'd be too difficult. It just doesn't really gel with what I believe is the goal of races. But if enough people
want it, I guess it'll happen</font>
</p>

<p><font color="#800080">
* EviLDeD would like to thank everyone for coming to yet another successful #uox3 House of Commons meeting. As usual a log will be made available on the main websites, and for those that still had questions save them for the next meeting on March 5th, 2000 at 8pm est.. Thanks again!!<br>
</font>
</p>
</body>